“Waste no more time arguing what a good man should be. Be One.” – Marcus Aurelius

“Think of the life you have lived until now as over and, as a dead man, see what’s left as a bonus and live it according to Nature. Love the hand that fate deals you and play it as your own, for what could be more fitting?” – Marcus Aurelius

“It never ceases to amaze me: we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinion than our own.” – Marcus Aurelius

“It’s time you realized that you have something in you more powerful and miraculous than the things that affect you and make you dance like a puppet.” – Marcus Aurelius

“External thinks are not the problem. It’s your assessment of them. Which you can erase right now.” – Marcus Aurelius

“Be tolerant with others and strict with yourself.” – Marcus Aurelius

“I judge you unfortunate because you have never lived through misfortune. You have passed through life without an opponent—no one can ever know what you are capable of, not even you.” – Seneca

My idea of the modern Stoic sage is someone who transforms fear into prudence, pain into information, mistakes into initiation, and desire into undertaking.

“It is not the man who has too little that is poor, but the one who hankers after more.”
― Lucius Annaeus Seneca, Letters from a Stoic

He has the most who is content with the least. Diogenes

To bear trials with a calm mind robs misfortune of its strength and burden. Seneca

A gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man without trials.
―Seneca

Wealth consists not in having great possessions, but in having few wants.
— Epictetus

Time heals what reason cannot.

The greatest blessings of mankind are within us and within our reach. A wise man is content with his lot, whatever it may be, without wishing for what he has not.

Sometimes even to live is an act of courage.

“Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body.”
― Lucius Annaeus Seneca

“You act like mortals in all that you fear, and like immortals in all that you desire”
― Lucius Annaeus Seneca, On the Shortness of Life

“They lose the day in expectation of the night, and the night in fear of the dawn.”
― Seneca, On the Shortness of Life

“But life is very short and anxious for those who forget the past, neglect the present, and fear the future.”
― Seneca, On the Shortness of Life

“We are more often frightened than hurt; and we suffer more from imagination than from reality”
― Lucius Annaeus Seneca

“Nothing is more honorable than a grateful heart.”
― Lucius Annaeus Seneca

“No man is crushed by misfortune unless he has first been deceived by prosperity”
― Seneca,, Dialogues and Letters

“No man is more unhappy than he who never faces adversity. For he is not permitted to prove himself”
― Seneca

“It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare, it is because we do not dare that they are difficult.”
― Lucius Annaeus Seneca

“If what you have seems insufficient to you, then though you possess the world, you will yet be miserable.”
― Seneca

... the only contestant who can confidently enter the lists is the man who has seen his own blood, who has felt his teeth rattle beneath his opponent’s fist, who has been tripped and felt the full force of his adversary’s charge, who has been downed in body but not in spirit, one who, as often as he falls, rises again with greater defiance than ever. - Seneca

You will understand that there is nothing dreadful in this except fear itself. - Seneca

I do not know whether I shall make progress; but I should prefer to lack success rather than to lack faith. - Seneca

If you see a man who is unterrified in the midst of dangers, untouched by desires, happy in adversity, peaceful amid the storm, who looks down upon men from a higher plane, and views the gods on a footing of equality, will not a feeling of reverence for him steal over you, will you not say: “This quality is too great and too lofty to be regarded as resembling this petty body in which it dwells? A divine power has descended upon that man.”

Our luxuries have condemned us to weakness; we have ceased to be able to do that which we have long declined to do.

The shortest way to wealth is through the contempt of wealth.

Let us greedily enjoy our friends, because we do not know how long this privilege will be ours.

if any goods could be greater than others, I should prefer those which seem harsh to those which are mild and alluring, and should pronounce them greater. For it is more of an accomplishment to break one’s way through difficulties than to keep joy within bounds.

Two elements must therefore be rooted out once for all—the fear of future suffering, and the recollection of past suffering; since the latter no longer concerns me, and the former concerns me not yet.

Is it for this purpose that we are strong—that we may have light burdens to bear?

Meanwhile, hold fast to this thought, and grip it close: yield not to adversity; trust not to prosperity; keep before your eyes the full scope of Fortune’s power, as if she would surely do whatever is in her power to do.

Just as an enemy is more dangerous to a retreating army, so every trouble that fortune brings attacks us all the harder if we yield and turn our backs.

Learn to be content with little, and cry out with courage and with greatness of soul: ‘We have water, we have porridge; let us compete in happiness with Jupiter himself.’

Valor withers without adversity

You have power over your mind - not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength.

Those who have a 'why' to live, can bear with almost any 'how'

the easiest way for us to gain happiness is to learn how to want the things we already have

If you periodically embrace discomfort, you're more likely to be comfortable than someone who tries to avoid all discomfort. You'll have a much wider comfort zone than others and will therefore feel comfortable under circumstances that would cause others distress.

The most fundamental aggression to ourselves, the most fundamental harm we can do to ourselves, is to remain ignorant by not having the courage and the respect to look at ourselves honestly and gently.

For the Stoics, then, our judgments about the world are all that we can control, but also all that we need to control in order to be happy; tranquility results from replacing our irrational judgments with rational ones

The effort to feel happy is often precisely the thing that makes us miserable. And that it is out constant efforts to eliminate the negative - insecurity, uncertainty, failure, or sadness - that is what causes us to feel so insecure, anxious, uncertain, or unhappy

He who lives in harmony with himself lives in harmony with the universe

"To every man upon this earth, Death cometh soon or late. And how can man die better, Than facing fearful odds, For the ashes of his fathers, And the temples of his Gods?" -- Lays of Ancient Rome, Thomas Macaulay

"Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body." - Seneca


“True happiness is to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence upon the future, not to amuse ourselves with either hopes or fears but to rest satisfied with what we have, which is sufficient, for he that is so wants nothing. The greatest blessings of mankind are within us and within our reach. A wise man is content with his lot, whatever it may be, without wishing for what he has not.” - Seneca

“You have power over your mind - not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars, and see yourself running with them.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love ...” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together,but do so with all your heart.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself in your way of thinking.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Whenever you are about to find fault with someone, ask yourself the following question: What fault of mine most nearly resembles the one I am about to criticize?” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“The first rule is to keep an untroubled spirit. The second is to look things in the face and know them for what they are.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Look well into thyself; there is a source of strength which will always spring up if thou wilt always look.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Here is a rule to remember in future, when anything tempts you to feel bitter: not "This is misfortune," but "To bear this worthily is good fortune.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Perfection of character is this: to live each day as if it were your last, without frenzy, without apathy, without pretence.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Nothing happens to anybody which he is not fitted by nature to bear.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Receive without conceit, release without struggle.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Do what you will. Even if you tear yourself apart, most people will continue doing the same things.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Be like the cliff against which the waves continually break; but it stands firm and tames the fury of the water around it.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“Take full account of what Excellencies you possess, and in gratitude remember how you would hanker after them, if you had them not.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

“That which is really beautiful has no need of anything; not more than law, not more than truth, not more than benevolence or modesty.” ― Marcus Aurelius, Meditations

